With using the MURA dataset of bone x-rays, since it is so large, I believe that I have many directions to go on whether I want to focus on abnormalities of a specific area or bone maybe arms, or if I want to focus on classifying which bone is broken in all possible bones. This would completely change, first of all, the data I use in the training set, and change the parts in the model. I am assuming that with classification of which bone is broken, every x-ray in the database I use must have a very clear distinction in lightness and darkness as there is a certain color palette/lightness/wavelength associated with x-rays thus the detection can be a little different. I think from a high-level perspective one of the biggest things will be reading the few research papers inspired by this data set. While I don’t know a lot about why these things will be important for me to look at, I do know training neural networks, and maybe taking an ensemble model approach seem to be the most used methods in x-ray classification deep learning from what I have seen in papers thus far. I think the feature extraction here will be difficult as the features of each bone and each break is usually different however hopefully with such a large dataset there could be enough variety that the vision system will be able to see enough examples and learn properly. I think classifying types of breaks would be much harder as no two are the same but with classifying which bone is broken might be better as the focus would be on the bone itself and while each person is different the general shape of a knee cap or a finger bone should be relatively the same, at least if I isolate only normal bones with injuries instead of abnormalities. I also think that maybe i would try a lot of different combinations of training data as long as they are labeled properly. Such that maybe properly labeled abnormal bones might also help the accuracy of the model with normal bones as well. It will just be important that the fractures or breaks are visible enough to the system to detect as hairline fractures might be hard to notice thus some playing with the x-ray images themselves such as maybe turning up the brightness or white light such that the bone itself becomes more prominently seen and any dark or hairline fractures exuding dark coloring could be more noticeable however this should be agnostic in the sense that it would be preferable that any x-ray could correctly be detected no matter the hue, saturation or brightness etc which is why a deep learning approach seems to be popular. This technique seemed to be talked about in class as high frequency emphasis filtering for image enhancement and histogram equalization(changing the histogram to have the intensity necessary for detection with contrast enhanced) this use of point operators should also help to normalize across all of the data in the MURA dataset since some X-rays appear clearer than others. Also, since there are multiple bones showing in certain X-ray images, image segmentation would be necessary - especially if some x-rays have more than one bone with a fracture or break. There is an issue however with some bones like joints for me as I have a hard time noticing certain fractures or breaks in them myself so annotations that are not already done maybe for data used outside of the training with the MURA dataset could be an issue with trying to confirm the abilities fo the vision algorithm.
