the dataset that I will be usingis called the MURA dataset. this dataset is given to the public through request by the Stanford ML group and is considered to be the largest dataset of bone x-rays available. The dataset consists of 14,863 studies from 12,173 patients totaling about 40,561 images. the images are of upper body parts like the elbow, fingers, forearms, hands , humerous, shoulder, and wrist. Each study/data point was labeled by a board-certified radiologist from Stanford Hospital between the years of 2001 and 2012. The MURA dataset includes all normal and abnormal x-rays thus, for my purposes of focusing on bone breaks, i will need to filter out any abnormal x-rays that are abnormal for reasons other than a broken bone. Such as, having a plate or sturcture screwed into the body for a bone that is no longer broken or an x-ray of an abonrmally shaped yet intact bone. There are also nmany normal bone x-rays that I will need to keep so that the model can tell the difference between a normal and a broken bone. For training, I am assuming about 1,000(or more_ x-rays to be useable for the categories of normal or consisting of a broken bone from all areas provided which have been listed already. For Validation, about a similar number of x-rays should be useable as normal or broken boned x-rays. For testing, I am planningto try to isolate some of the more challanging x-rays of breaks and also of more normal x-rays whoch should hopefully be still a large portion of the dataset. The dataset is x-rays of people ranging from 2 to 25 years of age thus any x-rays used in testing that are not from the dataset and possibly from a source consisting of x-ray in an age range either high or lower might not be as acurate. 
There are many studies and papers using this dataset as it is a dataset that is used for an on-going competition and thus the informationonhow others use these x-ray images is dense. On the offical MURA dataset page, they say the baseline uses a 169-layer convolutional neural network that uses a Dense convolutional network architecture. I am assuming that since the dataset include abnormalities of many "shapes and sizes" while my model will look at the yes or no question of a bone break, I will not need my model to be as complex. Some characteristics, since this is of x-rays, might be the illumination wavelength as radiography uses specific wavelengths to capture images. this range might need to be quite wide as well as some x-rays, as many seasoned bone breakers may know, do not always look of the same quality as others. The download link of the dataset should already be in Prof. Czajka's email as his permission was needed/perferred when applying to obtain the dataset. 
